WIP: docs(gpu): gpu instances documentation (#275)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/gpu/how-to/create-manage-gpu-instance.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to create and manage a GPU Instance
  description: This page explains how to create and manage a GPU Instance
content:
  h1: How to create and manage a GPU Instance
  paragraph: This page explains how to create and manage a GPU Instance
dates:
  validation: 2021-12-14
  posted: 2021-12-14
---

> Scaleway GPU Instances are virtual compute instances equipped with dedicated high-end Nvidia graphical processing unit (GPUs). They are ideal for data processing, articifical intelligence, rendering and video encoding. After you have created your GPU Instance, you can connect to it via SSH and use one of our ready-made [Docker images](/compute/gpu/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker) to access a preinstalled [Pipenv](/compute/gpu/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker) environment with all your favourite AI libraries and tools pre-installed. In addition to this, GPU Instances have all the features of our regular Instances, including [flexible IPs](/compute/instances/how-to/use-flexips/), [Security Groups](/compute/instances/how-to/use-security-groups/), [Private Networks](/compute/instances/how-to/use-private-networks/), [backups](/compute/instances/how-to/create-a-backup/) and more. When you've finished with your GPU Instance, you can easily delete it from the Scaleway Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scaleway GPU Instances are virtual compute Instances equipped with dedicated high-end Nvidia graphical processing unit (GPUs). They are ideal for data processing, artificial intelligence, rendering and video encoding. After you have created your GPU Instance, you can connect to it via SSH and use one of our ready-made [Docker images](/compute/gpu/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker) to access a preinstalled [Pipenv](/compute/gpu/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker) environment with all your favorite AI libraries and tools pre-installed. In addition to this, GPU Instances have all the features of our regular Instances, including [flexible IPs](/compute/instances/how-to/use-flexips/), [Security Groups](/compute/instances/how-to/use-security-groups/), [Private Networks](/compute/instances/how-to/use-private-networks/), [backups](/compute/instances/how-to/create-a-backup/) and more. When you are done using your GPU Instance, you can easily delete it from the Scaleway Console.
```

> Scaleway GPU Instances are virtual compute instances equipped with dedicated high-end Nvidia graphical processing unit (GPUs). They are ideal for data processing, articifical intelligence, rendering and video encoding. After you have created your GPU Instance, you can connect to it via SSH and use one of our ready-made [Docker images](/compute/gpu/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker) to access a preinstalled [Pipenv](/compute/gpu/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker) environment with all your favourite AI libraries and tools pre-installed. In addition to this, GPU Instances have all the features of our regular Instances, including [flexible IPs](/compute/instances/how-to/use-flexips/), [Security Groups](/compute/instances/how-to/use-security-groups/), [Private Networks](/compute/instances/how-to/use-private-networks/), [backups](/compute/instances/how-to/create-a-backup/) and more. When you've finished with your GPU Instance, you can easily delete it from the Scaleway Console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scaleway GPU Instances are Instances equipped with dedicated high-end Nvidia graphical processing unit (GPUs). They are ideal for data processing, artificial intelligence, rendering and video encoding. After you have created your GPU Instance, you can connect to it via SSH and use one of our ready-made [Docker images](/compute/gpu/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker) to access a preinstalled [Pipenv](/compute/gpu/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker) environment with all your favourite AI libraries and tools pre-installed. In addition to this, GPU Instances have all the features of our regular Instances, including [flexible IPs](/compute/instances/how-to/use-flexips/), [Security Groups](/compute/instances/how-to/use-security-groups/), [Private Networks](/compute/instances/how-to/use-private-networks/), [backups](/compute/instances/how-to/create-a-backup/) and more.
```

<Message type="requirement">

  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [created your SSH Key and added it to your account](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)

</Message>

## How to create a GPU Instance

1. Click **Instances** in the **Compute** section of the side menu. The Instance creation page displays.

2. Click **Create an Instance**. The Instance creation wizard displays.

3. Complete the following steps in the wizard: 

    - Choose an **Availability Zone**, which is the geographical region where your GPU Instance will be deployed.
    - Select **GPU** as the **Instance type**, and then choose the type of GPU Instance you want. Different types have different prices, processing power, memory, SSD disks and bandwidth. 

>     - Choose an **Image** to run on your GPU Instance. [TODO CHECK WHAT THE IMAGE OPTIONS WILL LOOK LIKE]

Reviewer: Don't forget to remove this part "[TODO CHECK WHAT THE IMAGE OPTIONS WILL LOOK LIKE]" after you have checked the image options :)

>     - Choose an **Image** to run on your GPU Instance. [TODO CHECK WHAT THE IMAGE OPTIONS WILL LOOK LIKE]

Reviewer 2: Attention -> contenu à ajouter ou supprimer ici

>     - Add **Volumes**. This is an optional step. Volumes are storage spaces used by your Instances. You can leave the default settings of a minimum local storage, or choose to add more [block](/compute/instances/concepts#block-volumes) or [local](/compute/instances/concepts#local-volumes) storage to your GPU Instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Add **Volumes**. This is an optional step. Volumes are storage spaces used by your Instances. You can leave the default settings of a minimum local storage, or choose to add more [Block](/compute/instances/concepts#block-volumes) or [Local](/compute/instances/concepts#local-volumes) Storage to your GPU Instance. 
```

    - Enter a **Name** for your GPU Instance, or leave the randomly generated name in place. Optionally, you can also add tags (/compute/instances/concepts#tags) to help you organize your GPU Instance. 

>     - Click **Advanced Options** if you wish to configure a [Flexible IP](/compute/instances/concepts#flexible-ip), a local bootscript or a [cloud-init configuration](/compute/instances/concepts#cloud-init). Otherwise, leave these options at their default values. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Click **Advanced Options** if you want to configure a [Flexible IP](/compute/instances/concepts#flexible-ip), a local bootscript or a [cloud-init configuration](/compute/instances/concepts#cloud-init). Otherwise, leave these options at their default values. 
```

    - Verify the [SSH Keys](/console/my-account/concepts#ssh-key) that will give you access to your GPU Instance 
    - Verify the **Estimated Cost** of your GPU Instance, based on the specifications you chose.

> 4. Click **Create a new instance** to finish. The creation of your GPU Instance begins, and you are informed when the GPU Instance is ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Create a new Instance** to finish. The creation of your GPU Instance begins, and you are informed when the GPU Instance is ready.
```

> 4. Click **Create a new instance** to finish. The creation of your GPU Instance begins, and you are informed when the GPU Instance is ready.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click **Create a new Instance** to finish. The creation of your GPU Instance begins, and you are informed when the GPU Instance is ready.
```

## How to connect to a GPU Instance

See our documentation on [how to connect to your Instance via SSH](/compute/instances/how-to/connect-to-instance/).

> Once you've connected via SSH, you can [launch a Docker container](/compute/instances/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker/) and [use a pre-installed Pipenv environment](/compute/instances/how-to/use-pipenv/) to get right to work on your AI projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have connected via SSH, you can [launch a Docker container](/compute/instances/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker/) and [use a pre-installed Pipenv environment](/compute/instances/how-to/use-pipenv/) to start working on your AI projects.
```

> Once you've connected via SSH, you can [launch a Docker container](/compute/instances/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker/) and [use a pre-installed Pipenv environment](/compute/instances/how-to/use-pipenv/) to get right to work on your AI projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have connected via SSH, you can [launch a Docker container](/compute/instances/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker/) and [use a pre-installed Pipenv environment](/compute/instances/how-to/use-pipenv/) start your AI projects.
```

## How to use Instance features

> For instructions on using any type of GPU Instance feature, including Flexible IPs, Placement Groups, Private Networks, Backups and much more, check out our full [Instance how-to documentation](/compute/instances/how-to/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For instructions on using any type of GPU Instance feature, including flexible IPs, placement groups, Private Networks, backups, and much more, check out our full [Instance how-to documentation](/compute/instances/how-to/).
```

  h1: How to create and manage a GPU Instance
  paragraph: This page explains how to create and manage a GPU Instance
dates:
  validation: 2022-03-25
  posted: 2022-03-25
---

> Scaleway GPU Instances are virtual compute instances equipped with dedicated high-end Nvidia graphical processing unit (GPUs). They are ideal for data processing, artificial intelligence, rendering and video encoding. After you have created your GPU Instance, you can [connect to it via SSH](/compute/instances/how-to/connect-to-instance) and run one of our ready-made [Docker images](/compute/gpu/how-to/use-gpu-with-docker) to access a [preinstalled environment](/compute/gpu/how-to/use-preisntalled-env) environment with all your [favorite AI libraries and tools](/compute/gpu/reference-content/docker-images/) pre-installed. In addition to this, GPU Instances have all the features of our regular Instances, including [flexible IPs](/compute/instances/how-to/use-flexips/), [Security Groups](/compute/instances/how-to/use-security-groups/), [Private Networks](/compute/instances/how-to/use-private-networks/), [backups](/compute/instances/how-to/create-a-backup/) and more. When you are done using your GPU Instance, you can easily [delete it](/compute/instances/how-to/delete-instance/) from the Scaleway console.

Author: Shall we mention the deletion of the Instance in the intro?

Reviewer 3: I think its worth leaving in for AI devs who aren't used to working in the cloud, might find it reassuring that you can delete at any time?
